---
title: Normal People - Media Mosaic
slug: normal-people
date_published: 1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z
date_updated: 2024-02-21T19:18:54.000Z
draft: true
---

I am often casually, and regrettably, behind the hype trains and bandwagons which follow shows that attain widespread popularity at their debut. The screen adaptation of Sally Rooney's *Normal People* was no different a case, having only discovered it after browsing Paul Mescal's filmography (following the emotionally-unforgiving *Aftersun*, my first exchange with Mescal's brilliant, stoic screen presence, left me immediately craving more). Now, I wish Letterboxd had a way to hide the reviews from one's unwatched movies because I'd be lying if I said they didn't single-handedly sway my decision to watch (or not watch) several films. *Normal People* is in that category of popularity that made me question: is the exceedingly-high praise it has been given a result of critical acclaim or an extremely powerful emotional appeal (not that these characteristics are mutually exclusive, but in my experience one can elude the other). In a position to consume more of Paul Mescal's work and having been wanting to finally dip into that of Daisy Edgar-Jones, I was left with no choice but to watch it immediately. The following are my thoughts as a passive observer to the 'true love' of 'normal people.'

### *Spoilers ahead...*

---

A show like this depends heavily on thematic relatability; luckily, when the theme is love, heartbreak, friendship, and human connection, most people have a word to share or an experience to draw from that enables them to relate. Then, you develop the timeless notion of *naive* love - not just the romantic relationships between young people, but those of people who are *new to love - *which a largely young audience is actively living through and which an older audience can reflect on with fondness, passion, or maybe even regret and despondency. Finally, place it on a timeline that spans years, fill it with sensuality, and develop *just* enough conflict to tempt frustration. What you are left with is a very 'relatable' (and consumable) love story that, by virtue of simply being a human person, you are likely to enjoy. This is the mindset with which I went into my binge of *Normal People*. I was choosing to believe that this show was designed from the ground-up with this audience in mind, and because I think leaning into your personal connection with love is the best way to enjoy romance, I was fully ready to fill that expectation.

I am always intrigued at the viability of romance-centric media because of how uniquely personal love is. Yet, it is really a mysterious dichotomy of universal understanding and personal experience; without being presumptuous, I believe most people have in their life felt something that they consider to be love. In that sense, we as humans can perceive love, point it out, recognize it, experience it - at the same time, though, our personal versions of love can vary so widely, and with such passion and purpose, that it seems nearly impossible to create something so universally, emphatically appreciated. Nonetheless, *Normal People* manages to assert that appeal.

While not novel in principle, our love story spans years - many years - particularly at a time of growth and development for Connell and Marianne. This is something that the show does very well. Late-adolescence and early-adulthood is a time in most individuals' lives where you are starting to develop a worldview, feel a sense of responsibility, and explore these new ideas of what you want your life to look like. But amidst all of that, you are still commingled in the society of high school and childhood relationships: the drama, anxiety, acquaintanceship, adults, and life that surround you still bear significant influence. I mean no wonder - they are what your life has been for, well, your whole life. And because of your inherent impressionability, how are you really supposed to know yourself and what you want? I think the answer is, "you don't" - instead, you succumb to the whim of those external pressures, make mistakes, and hope that you come out the other side on the 'right' path, whatever that may be for you.

Connell and Marianne discovered their mutual physical and emotional connection in that delicate setting. For the first time in his life, Connell found in Marianne a friend - a *true* friend - with whom he could confide in. Marianne disposed herself into this intense attraction; she no longer had to always feel alone and could steal those moments with Connell as an escape from harsh realities of her current existence. A mutually beneficial relationship, albeit at the whim of Connell's insecure, harsh dismissal of Marianne in the presence of those with whom he maintains a real, but shallow, friendship. The way they addressed this in the show I thought was healthy and realistic; most of the time when an adult figure gets involved in the lives of their children, its in this very trivial and unproductive way. I felt like Lorraine had an appropriate and satisfyingly passionate response to the way her son was dehumanizing Marianne, all while foreshadowing Connell's future growth and underscoring how much his relationship with his mom matters. Of course, in true adolescent fashion, Connell was as dismissive of his mom's advice as he was of Marianne herself

Overall, introduction, immaturity, passion, and sex define their blossoming companionship, right at an inflection point in both their lives, and at the same time asserts the cadence with which the rest of the story unfolds.

Connell anxiety in high school --> relationship with Marianne --> social structures/facades --> mom getting mad at him (!!!) --> meaningful expressions of love

Marianne feels completely, entirely alone. No tangible or meaningful support from over-worked mom. Brother is a hack. Not really any friends at school, feels sequestered.

They develop attraction, start talking, Marianne feels less alone with him, tells herself she is okay with being sequestered by Connell.
