---
title: In the Air!
slug: in-the-air
date_published: 2019-07-31T21:14:00.000Z
date_updated: 2022-07-11T03:21:15.000Z
tags: Europe 2019, #travel blog, #photo-gallery
---

So my really well thought out plan to beat the jet lag failed miserably. It was about 9:00pm CST, and I decided that with five hours left in the flight I should just try and go to sleep then and there, Well I got my headphones plugged in and music turned on and sleep mask ready - I was asleep in 10 minutes,,,, Only to wake up 30 minutes later, unable to sleep any longer. The universe decided that tonight was not the night for me, so here I am writing this instead. 

Some initial observations; I am not the only one it seems who cannot get a good night’s rest on the plane. My neighbors to the left have both surfaced and returned to their devices since I have been awake. In addition to this, the flight attendant has been by twice in the past hour to refill my hot chocolate :D I would fly Virgin Atlantic again in a heartbeat. It also helps that there are only about 15 seats occupied here on the second floor of the plane, which is a huge bonus for being able to sprawl out and (try) to sleep. From what I can tell, my mom is sleeping pretty well right now which is good because she was telling me how difficult it is for her to sleep on planes.

I have been getting some alright videos of my journey so far, so I cant wait to take more when we land :D

That is it for me for tonight. Now that it is later I’m gonna try this whole sleeping thing again…
