---
title: Resume
slug: resume
date_published: 2023-10-16T18:38:36.000Z
date_updated: 2023-10-16T19:05:17.000Z
excerpt: Resume and CV of my entire professional history.
---

---

*Listen to a fun playlist while you browse my resume*

---

## **Professional Experience**

### WellSky

Intern – Software Engineering & SRE
*May 2023 – Aug. 2023*

Handled on-premise and cloud (GCP) deployments with Terraform. Modified and updated existing Helm templates and tracked deployment through ArgoCD. Developed extensible Python automation scripts for modifying F5 during application releases. Developed New Relic SLIs through Terraform Enterprise to reflect changes in team’s cloud configuration.

### AscendLearning

Intern – Software Engineering, Security
*Dec. 2021 – Dec. 2022*

Developed a full-stack security operations web tool in ReactJS. Integrated application into AscendLearning's GitLab CI/CD pipeline, including Docker builds, unit testing, Kubernetes deployment, and creation of development, staging, and production environments. Performed in-depth security analysis including: CSRF/SQL injection prevention, token-based authentication, and TLS. Integrated automation of key sec/ops workflows, including the identification of vulnerabilities, threat mitigation, and blocking scripts, creating a significant reduction in working hours spent for the sec/ops team. Designed the tool to be foundational, extensible, and adaptable as the team’s needs change.

### SS&C, Inc.

Intern – Software Engineering, Backend (monolithic Java)
*May 2021 – Aug. 2021*

Developed Java-based API endpoint for the internal Business Services Library using CI/CD processes. Created technical design documentation. Performed system integration testing with QA teams. Participated in iterative design sessions with a client for the Fund Trade Monitoring tool.

[

Resume

Use the download button for a formatted PDF of my resume

resume.pdf

116 KB

.a{fill:none;stroke:currentColor;stroke-linecap:round;stroke-linejoin:round;stroke-width:1.5px;}download-circle
](__GHOST_URL__/content/files/2023/10/resume.pdf)
